INTEGRATIONS.md, before:

# Integration Setup Guide

This guide provides detailed setup instructions for each integration in Red Cliff Record.

## Sync via CLI (optional)

Install the CLI once from the repo, then run syncs via `rcr`:

```bash
bun link
```

You can run integrations with the CLI instead of the per-integration scripts:

```bash
rcr sync github
rcr sync daily
```

Flags are strict (unknown options error). Use `--format=table` for human-readable output.

### Debug Mode

Use `--debug` to test API connectivity without writing to the database:

```bash
rcr sync github --debug
```

Debug mode:

- Fetches data from the API as normal
- Skips all database writes
- Outputs raw API responses to `.temp/<integration>-<timestamp>.json`
- Useful for testing credentials, viewing raw data, and debugging API issues

## GitHub Integration

Syncs your GitHub repositories, stars, and commits.

### Setup

1. Go to [GitHub Settings > Personal Access Tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens)
2. Click "Generate new token (classic)"
3. Set expiration as desired
4. Select scopes:
   - `repo` (Full control of private repositories)
   - `user` (Read user profile data)
5. Generate token and copy to `.env` as `GITHUB_TOKEN`

### What Gets Synced

- Your repositories (public and private)
- Starred repositories
- Recent commits, including AI-generated summaries and metadata for each commit
- User profiles

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync github
```

## Airtable Integration

Syncs records from Airtable bases with a specific structure.

**Important**: This integration is configured specifically for the database structure used by the [barnsworthburning](https://github.com/Aias/barnsworthburning) project. If you want to use Airtable as a data source, you should:

1. Fork the barnsworthburning repository
2. Set up your own Airtable base following that project's structure
3. Configure the integration with your base ID and token

### Setup

1. Go to [Airtable API](https://airtable.com/create/tokens)
2. Create a new personal access token
3. Give it a read-only scope
4. Add your base to the token's access list
5. Copy token to `.env` as `AIRTABLE_ACCESS_TOKEN`
6. Find your base ID (starts with 'app') from Airtable URL
7. Add to `.env` as `AIRTABLE_BASE_ID`

### What Gets Synced

- All records from configured tables
- Attachments and media
- Rich text content
- Record relationships

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync airtable
```

## Raindrop.io Integration

Syncs your bookmarks and collections.

### Setup

1. Go to [Raindrop.io Integrations](https://app.raindrop.io/settings/integrations)
2. Click "Create new app"
3. Fill in app details (name, description)
4. After creation, click on your app
5. Copy the "Test token" to `.env` as `RAINDROP_TEST_TOKEN`

### What Gets Synced

- All bookmarks
- Collections
- Tags
- Cover images
- Descriptions

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync raindrop
```

## Readwise Integration

Syncs your reading highlights and notes.

### Setup

1. Go to [Readwise Access Token](https://readwise.io/access_token)
2. Copy your access token
3. Add to `.env` as `READWISE_TOKEN`

### What Gets Synced

- Book highlights
- Article highlights
- Podcast notes
- Personal notes
- Source metadata

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync readwise
```

## Feedbin Integration

Syncs your RSS feed subscriptions and entries from Feedbin.

### Setup

1. Create a [Feedbin](https://feedbin.com) account if you don't have one
2. Add your Feedbin credentials to `.env`:
   ```
   FEEDBIN_USERNAME=your@email.com
   FEEDBIN_PASSWORD=your-password
   ```

### What Gets Synced

- All feed subscriptions
- Feed entries (unread, starred, and recently read)
- Feed metadata and icons
- Read/starred status
- Differential sync for starred items (only syncs changes)
- Embeddings generated after initial sync

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync feedbin
```

### Features

- Incremental sync based on last sync time
- Efficient starred entry syncing (only fetches new starred items)
- Automatic feed discovery for entries without feeds
- Batch processing for embeddings
- Enclosure/podcast support

## Browser History Integration (macOS Only)

Syncs browsing history from Chromium-based browsers locally. Currently configured for Arc and Dia browsers, but the same approach works for any Chromium-based browser (Chrome, Edge, Brave, etc.) with path adjustments.

### Arc Browser

#### Setup

1. Install Arc browser and use it normally
2. No API key required - reads local history database

#### Requirements

- macOS only
- Arc browser must be installed
- Script needs read access to: `~/Library/Application Support/Arc/`

#### What Gets Synced

- Browsing history
- Page titles
- Visit timestamps
- Favicons

### Troubleshooting

- If sync fails, check System Preferences > Security & Privacy
- May need to grant terminal/IDE file access permissions

### Dia Browser

#### Setup

1. Install Dia browser and use it normally
2. No API key required - reads local history database

#### Requirements

- macOS only
- Dia browser must be installed
- Script needs read access to: `~/Library/Application Support/Dia/`

#### What Gets Synced

- Browsing history
- Page titles
- Visit timestamps
- Search terms

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync browsing
```

This runs both Arc and Dia syncs sequentially under a single integration run.

### Adding Other Chromium Browsers

To add support for other Chromium-based browsers:

1. Create a new browser config in `src/server/integrations/browser-history/browsers/`
2. Update the database connection to point to the browser's history file
3. Add the browser to the `browserEnum` in the database schema
4. Create a sync script following the Arc/Dia pattern

Common browser history locations on macOS:

- Chrome: `~/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/Default/History`
- Edge: `~/Library/Application Support/Microsoft Edge/Default/History`
- Brave: `~/Library/Application Support/BraveSoftware/Brave-Browser/Default/History`

## Adobe Lightroom Integration

Syncs photos from a publicly shared Adobe Lightroom album.

**Important**: This integration is currently hardcoded to sync from the author's personal Lightroom album. To use this integration with your own photos:

1. Create an Adobe Lightroom account
2. Upload your photos to Lightroom
3. Create an album and make it publicly shareable
4. Get the public album URL
5. Modify the `ALBUM_URL` in `src/server/integrations/adobe/sync.ts` to point to your album

### Setup

1. No API key required for publicly shared albums
2. You'll need to modify the hardcoded album URL in the sync script

### What Gets Synced

- All photos from the specified Lightroom album
- Photo metadata (camera info, EXIF data, ratings)
- 2048px renditions of images
- Auto-generated tags from Adobe's AI
- Location data if available

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync adobe
```

## Twitter/X Integration

Captures Twitter bookmarks (manual process).

### Setup

1. No API key required (uses browser console)
2. Manual capture process due to API limitations

### Capture Process

1. Open Twitter/X in your browser
2. Open browser developer console (F12)
3. Copy and run the script from `src/server/integrations/twitter/bookmarks.js`
4. Navigate to your bookmarks
5. Scroll to the bottom of the page (or until you see bookmarks from the last time you ran the script)
6. Save the output JSON to `/Red Cliff Record/twitter-bookmarks.json` (or wherever you'd like, but make sure to update the path in the sync command)
7. Import using the sync command

### What Gets Captured

- Bookmarked tweets
- Tweet content
- Author information
- Media URLs

### Sync Command

```bash
# After manual capture
rcr sync twitter
```

## Running All Integrations

To sync all configured integrations at once:

```bash
rcr sync daily
```

This runs: browsing, feedbin, raindrop, readwise, github, airtable. Manually updated integrations (Twitter and Adobe) are not run by this command.

## Rate Limits and Best Practices

- **GitHub**: 5,000 requests/hour for authenticated requests
- **Airtable**: 5 requests/second per base
- **Raindrop**: 120 requests/minute
- **Readwise**: Reasonable use expected
- **Feedbin**: Reasonable use expected
- **Arc/Dia**: Local only, no rate limits

### Scheduling Syncs

For production use, consider setting up a cron job:

```bash
# Sync daily at 2 AM
0 2 * * * cd /path/to/red-cliff-record && rcr sync daily
```

## Debugging Integration Issues

### Debug Mode

Use `--debug` to fetch data without writing to the database:

```bash
rcr sync github --debug
```

This outputs raw API responses to `.temp/github-<timestamp>.json` for inspection.

### Database Inspection

Check integration-specific tables in the database:

```bash
bun run db:studio
```

View sync logs in the `operations` table for detailed error messages.

Commit message:

Enhance Twitter integration with incremental sync and improved setup instructions
- Updated Twitter integration to sync bookmarks using the native GraphQL API with cookie-based authentication.
- Refined setup instructions to include cookie extraction steps and noted token expiration.
- Implemented incremental sync by fetching recent tweet IDs to optimize memory usage and avoid duplicate processing.
- Enhanced logging for better visibility during sync operations.
- Updated daily sync command to include Twitter integration, ensuring it runs alongside other configured integrations.

INTEGRATIONS.md, after:

# Integration Setup Guide

This guide provides detailed setup instructions for each integration in Red Cliff Record.

## Sync via CLI (optional)

Install the CLI once from the repo, then run syncs via `rcr`:

```bash
bun link
```

You can run integrations with the CLI instead of the per-integration scripts:

```bash
rcr sync github
rcr sync daily
```

Flags are strict (unknown options error). Use `--format=table` for human-readable output.

### Debug Mode

Use `--debug` to test API connectivity without writing to the database:

```bash
rcr sync github --debug
```

Debug mode:

- Fetches data from the API as normal
- Skips all database writes
- Outputs raw API responses to `.temp/<integration>-<timestamp>.json`
- Useful for testing credentials, viewing raw data, and debugging API issues

## GitHub Integration

Syncs your GitHub repositories, stars, and commits.

### Setup

1. Go to [GitHub Settings > Personal Access Tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens)
2. Click "Generate new token (classic)"
3. Set expiration as desired
4. Select scopes:
   - `repo` (Full control of private repositories)
   - `user` (Read user profile data)
5. Generate token and copy to `.env` as `GITHUB_TOKEN`

### What Gets Synced

- Your repositories (public and private)
- Starred repositories
- Recent commits, including AI-generated summaries and metadata for each commit
- User profiles

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync github
```

## Airtable Integration

Syncs records from Airtable bases with a specific structure.

**Important**: This integration is configured specifically for the database structure used by the [barnsworthburning](https://github.com/Aias/barnsworthburning) project. If you want to use Airtable as a data source, you should:

1. Fork the barnsworthburning repository
2. Set up your own Airtable base following that project's structure
3. Configure the integration with your base ID and token

### Setup

1. Go to [Airtable API](https://airtable.com/create/tokens)
2. Create a new personal access token
3. Give it a read-only scope
4. Add your base to the token's access list
5. Copy token to `.env` as `AIRTABLE_ACCESS_TOKEN`
6. Find your base ID (starts with 'app') from Airtable URL
7. Add to `.env` as `AIRTABLE_BASE_ID`

### What Gets Synced

- All records from configured tables
- Attachments and media
- Rich text content
- Record relationships

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync airtable
```

## Raindrop.io Integration

Syncs your bookmarks and collections.

### Setup

1. Go to [Raindrop.io Integrations](https://app.raindrop.io/settings/integrations)
2. Click "Create new app"
3. Fill in app details (name, description)
4. After creation, click on your app
5. Copy the "Test token" to `.env` as `RAINDROP_TEST_TOKEN`

### What Gets Synced

- All bookmarks
- Collections
- Tags
- Cover images
- Descriptions

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync raindrop
```

## Readwise Integration

Syncs your reading highlights and notes.

### Setup

1. Go to [Readwise Access Token](https://readwise.io/access_token)
2. Copy your access token
3. Add to `.env` as `READWISE_TOKEN`

### What Gets Synced

- Book highlights
- Article highlights
- Podcast notes
- Personal notes
- Source metadata

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync readwise
```

## Feedbin Integration

Syncs your RSS feed subscriptions and entries from Feedbin.

### Setup

1. Create a [Feedbin](https://feedbin.com) account if you don't have one
2. Add your Feedbin credentials to `.env`:
   ```
   FEEDBIN_USERNAME=your@email.com
   FEEDBIN_PASSWORD=your-password
   ```

### What Gets Synced

- All feed subscriptions
- Feed entries (unread, starred, and recently read)
- Feed metadata and icons
- Read/starred status
- Differential sync for starred items (only syncs changes)
- Embeddings generated after initial sync

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync feedbin
```

### Features

- Incremental sync based on last sync time
- Efficient starred entry syncing (only fetches new starred items)
- Automatic feed discovery for entries without feeds
- Batch processing for embeddings
- Enclosure/podcast support

## Browser History Integration (macOS Only)

Syncs browsing history from Chromium-based browsers locally. Currently configured for Arc and Dia browsers, but the same approach works for any Chromium-based browser (Chrome, Edge, Brave, etc.) with path adjustments.

### Arc Browser

#### Setup

1. Install Arc browser and use it normally
2. No API key required - reads local history database

#### Requirements

- macOS only
- Arc browser must be installed
- Script needs read access to: `~/Library/Application Support/Arc/`

#### What Gets Synced

- Browsing history
- Page titles
- Visit timestamps
- Favicons

### Troubleshooting

- If sync fails, check System Preferences > Security & Privacy
- May need to grant terminal/IDE file access permissions

### Dia Browser

#### Setup

1. Install Dia browser and use it normally
2. No API key required - reads local history database

#### Requirements

- macOS only
- Dia browser must be installed
- Script needs read access to: `~/Library/Application Support/Dia/`

#### What Gets Synced

- Browsing history
- Page titles
- Visit timestamps
- Search terms

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync browsing
```

This runs both Arc and Dia syncs sequentially under a single integration run.

### Adding Other Chromium Browsers

To add support for other Chromium-based browsers:

1. Create a new browser config in `src/server/integrations/browser-history/browsers/`
2. Update the database connection to point to the browser's history file
3. Add the browser to the `browserEnum` in the database schema
4. Create a sync script following the Arc/Dia pattern

Common browser history locations on macOS:

- Chrome: `~/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/Default/History`
- Edge: `~/Library/Application Support/Microsoft Edge/Default/History`
- Brave: `~/Library/Application Support/BraveSoftware/Brave-Browser/Default/History`

## Adobe Lightroom Integration

Syncs photos from a publicly shared Adobe Lightroom album.

**Important**: This integration is currently hardcoded to sync from the author's personal Lightroom album. To use this integration with your own photos:

1. Create an Adobe Lightroom account
2. Upload your photos to Lightroom
3. Create an album and make it publicly shareable
4. Get the public album URL
5. Modify the `ALBUM_URL` in `src/server/integrations/adobe/sync.ts` to point to your album

### Setup

1. No API key required for publicly shared albums
2. You'll need to modify the hardcoded album URL in the sync script

### What Gets Synced

- All photos from the specified Lightroom album
- Photo metadata (camera info, EXIF data, ratings)
- 2048px renditions of images
- Auto-generated tags from Adobe's AI
- Location data if available

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync adobe
```

## Twitter/X Integration

Syncs Twitter bookmarks using the native GraphQL API with cookie-based authentication.

### Setup

1. Log into Twitter/X in your browser
2. Open DevTools → Application → Cookies → x.com
3. Copy the `auth_token` cookie value to `.env` as `TWITTER_AUTH_TOKEN`
4. Copy the `ct0` cookie value to `.env` as `TWITTER_CT0`

Note: These tokens expire periodically and will need to be refreshed when sync fails with auth errors.

### What Gets Synced

- All bookmarked tweets
- Tweet content and metadata
- Author information (username, display name, avatar)
- Media attachments (images, videos)
- Quoted tweets

### Sync Command

```bash
rcr sync twitter
```

## Running All Integrations

To sync all configured integrations at once:

```bash
rcr sync daily
```

This runs: browsing, feedbin, raindrop, readwise, github, airtable, twitter, embeddings. Adobe is excluded because it's rarely updated.

## Rate Limits and Best Practices

- **GitHub**: 5,000 requests/hour for authenticated requests
- **Airtable**: 5 requests/second per base
- **Raindrop**: 120 requests/minute
- **Readwise**: Reasonable use expected
- **Feedbin**: Reasonable use expected
- **Arc/Dia**: Local only, no rate limits

### Scheduling Syncs

For production use, consider setting up a cron job:

```bash
# Sync daily at 2 AM
0 2 * * * cd /path/to/red-cliff-record && rcr sync daily
```

## Debugging Integration Issues

### Debug Mode

Use `--debug` to fetch data without writing to the database:

```bash
rcr sync github --debug
```

This outputs raw API responses to `.temp/github-<timestamp>.json` for inspection.

### Database Inspection

Check integration-specific tables in the database:

```bash
bun run db:studio
```

View sync logs in the `operations` table for detailed error messages.
